Improve README (#22)
NOAA-PSL/score-db: README.md

accessible via either a direct library call or via a command line call
with a yaml file or a python dictionary as the only accepted arguments.

## Input values 
Every action made through the API requires a name and method. Valid methods are GET or PUT. The name must be a registered value in the db_request_regsitry. 
Currently valid registry options are:
```sh
'region' : 'Add or get regions'
'experiment' : 'Add, get, or update experiment registration data'

> 'expt_metrics' : 'Add or update experiment metrics data'

Reviewer: noting here that the corresponding string for expt_metrics in the source file is "Add or [get]..."

Author: good catch, updated it

'metric_types' : 'Add, get, or update metric types'
'harvest_innov_stats' : 'Gather and store innovation statistics from diagnostics files'
'plot_innov_stats' : 'Plot innovation statistics'
'file_types' : 'Add, get, or update file types'
'storage_locations' : 'Add, get, or update storage locations'
'expt_file_counts' : 'Add or get experiment file counts'
'harvest_metrics' : 'Harvest and store metrics'
```

> Example request dictionaries for each registry option are provided in the index.

Reviewer: Very helpful, thank you! I think maybe "index" should instead be "Appendix" or even something simple like "below." I guess I'm just looking for something a little more clear.

Author: updated to Appendix to match the title of the section

    id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
    name = Column(String(128), nullable=False)

>     file_template = Column(String(64), nullable=False)

Reviewer: wow, nice catch

    folder_path = Column(String(255))
    cycle = Column(DateTime)
    time_valid = Column(DateTime)
    forecast_hour = Column(Float)
    file_size_bytes = Column(BigInteger)
    created_at = Column(DateTime, default=datetime.utcnow())

    experiment = relationship('Experiment', back_populates='file_counts')
    file_type = relationship('FileType', back_populates='file_counts')
    storage_location = relationship('StorageLocation', back_populates='file_counts')
```

## Request Dictionaries / YAML Formats

> For each request, a dictionary of values or yaml file containing the same information are necessary with relevant data for that call. GET calls use filters and ordering data. PUT calls must contain the data to be put into the database. This is a list of example calls only. Each call should be customized with the appropriate input data. While the examples are in a dictionary format, all the values could be similarly input as a yaml file with the same hierachy provided by the examples.

Reviewer: This is a great start and will be so helpful for new (and current) users. I think the passage could be revised for better clarity. How about:

```suggestion
All requests require either a dictionary or a YAML file to configure the call to the database. GET calls, e.g., are requests to download subsets of data using filters that are specified with a nested dictionary or within a YAML file configuration hierarchy. PUT calls must similarly (via defining a key:value structured hierarchy) specify which data to upload to the database. Other calls must also be configured with a dictionary or YAML file. The following example configuration dictionaries (which could be similarly defined in a YAML file with the same hierarchy) are provided as templates for basic use cases.
```

### Experiment Dictionaries
Example format of request dictionaries for 'experiment' calls.

GET: 

```sh
request_dict = {

>         'name': 'experiment',

Reviewer: nice use of indentation - very clear for demonstrating the nesting levels

                'regions': {
                    'name': {
                        'exact': ['global']
                    },
                },

                'time_valid': {
                    'from': '2015-01-01 00:00:00',
                    'to': '2016-01-03 00:00:00',
                },
            },
            'ordering': [
                {'name': 'time_valid', 'order_by': 'asc'}
            ]
        }
    }
```    

PUT:
```sh
request_dict = {
        'db_request_name' : 'expt_metrics',
        'method': 'PUT',
        'body' : {
            'expt_name': experiment_name,
            'expt_wallclock_start': experiment_wallclock,
            'metrics': {
                'name': name,
                'region_name': region,
                'elevation': elevation,
                'elevation_unit': elevation_unit,
                'value': value,
                'time_valid': time_valid,
                'forecast_hour' : forecast_hour,
                'ensemble_member' : ensemble_member
            },
            'datestr_format': '%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S',
        }
    }
```
Values which can be null or not provided: elevation_unit, forecast_hour, ensemble_member

> Note: for a successful PUT call, the experiment, region, and metric type referenced in the body must already be registered. 

Reviewer: I know this is specified above, but I suggest maybe adding at the end "using the db_XYZ.py" script, as demonstrated above."

Author: added reference to the script and example above.

                        'exact': 'example_type',
                    },
                },
                'storage_locations': {
                    'storage_loc_name' :{
                        'exact': 's3_example_bucket',
                    },
                },
            }
        }
    }
```

PUT:
```sh
  request_dict = {
        'name': 'expt_file_counts',
        'method': 'PUT',
        'body': {
            'experiment_name': 'C96L64.UFSRNR.GSI_3DVAR.012016',
            'wallclock_start': '2021-07-22 09:22:05',
            'file_type_name': 'example_type',
            'file_extension': '.example',
            'time_valid': '2023-02-05 06:00:00',
            'forecast_hour' : 120,
            'file_size_bytes' : 1234567890,
            'bucket_name' : 'noaa-example-score-db-bucket',
            'platform': 'aws_s3',
            'key': 'reanalysis',
            'count': 1230,
            'folder_path': 'noaa-example-score-db-bucket/reanalysis/2023/02/23/2023022306',
            'cycle': '2023-02-03 06:00:00'
        }
    }
```
Values which can be null or not provided: folder_path, cycle, time_valid, forecast_hour, file_size_bytes

> Note: the associated experiment, file type, and storage locations referenced in the body values must already be registered for a successful file count PUT call.

Reviewer: same as above - maybe add the very short how to or which script is used to register

Author: added reference to the script and the example above

                'wallclock_start': '2021-07-22 09:22:05',
                'graph_label': 'C96L64 GSI Uncoupled 3DVAR Experiment',
                'graph_color': 'blue'
            },
            {
                'name': 'C96L64.UFSRNR.GSI_SOCA_3DVAR.012016',
                'wallclock_start':  '2021-07-24 11:31:16',
                'graph_label': 'C96L64 GSI and SOCA Coupled 3DVAR Experiment',
                'graph_color': 'red'
            }
        ],
        'stat_groups': [
            {
                'cycles': CYCLES,
                'stat_group_frmt_str': 'innov_stats_{metric}_{stat}',
                'metrics': ['temperature','spechumid','uvwind'],
                'stats': ['bias', 'rmsd'],
                'elevation_unit': 'plevs',
                'regions': [
                    'equatorial',
                    'global',
                    'north_hemis',
                    'south_hemis',
                    'tropics'
                ]
            }
        ],
        'work_dir': '/absolute/path/to/desired/figure/location',
        'fig_base_fn': 'C96L64_GSI_3DVAR_VS_GSI_SOCA_3DVAR'
    }
```

## Code Structure

> The code base is developed into separate files to handling the interactions for separate tables as well as extra functionalities, i.e. harvester interactions. All of the code functionality resides with in the **src** folder. 

Reviewer: it was a little difficult for me to intpret this sentence - please confirm if my suggestion below makes sense

```suggestion
The code base is structured using separate files to handle interactions for separate tables as well as extra functionalities, i.e., harvester interactions. All of the code functionality resides with in the **src** folder. 
```

The *db_request_registry.py* contains the registration for all valid 'name' values for inputs. The registry is used to direct the call to the correct set of code and table interactions, i.e. experiments vs storage_locations. 

The *db_utils.py*, *time_utils.py*, *file_utils.py* and *yaml_utils.py* files contains utility functions that are referenced frequently throughout the code base for their respective topics (database interactions, handling datetimes, files, and yaml format files).

The *db_action_response.py* file defines the response code structure that is expected by all return calls for values called via the registry. 

The *score_table_models.py* file defines all the of the tables in the database using SQLAlchemy and contains the code to build those repsective tables. 

Majority of the files are used for calls to manipulate specific database tables. The relationship between those files and the tables is as follows: 

- experiments: *experiments.py*
- regions: *regions.py*
- metric_types: *metric_types.py*
- expt_metrics: *expt_metrics.py*
- storage_locations: *storage_locations.py*
- file_types: *file_types.py*
- expt_stored_file_counts: *expt_file_counts.py*

> The general structure of all of these files is to define a code structure based on the columns of the database, handle the processing of input data into the appropriate values, handling any input filters or order_by statements for GET calls, and finally to handle the GET and PUT calls using SQLAlchemy to input or retrieve data from the database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general purpose of all of these files is to define a code structure based on the columns of the database, handle the processing of input data into the appropriate values, handle any input filters or order_by statements for GET calls, and finally to handle the GET and PUT calls using SQLAlchemy to input or retrieve data from the database. 
```

> The *expt_metrics.py* and *expt_file_counts.py* files have interactions with the other codes files for the relevant tables related to the id relationships between those tables, for example both call the *experiments.py* code to get an experiment id. See the Table Schemas for the full set of table interactions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *expt_metrics.py* and *expt_file_counts.py* files have interactions with the other files for the relevant tables related to the id relationships between those tables, for example, both call the *experiments.py* code to get an experiment id. See the Table Schemas for the full set of table interactions. 
```
